Introduction
============

There are two ways in which you can compile MClone, i.e., the software has two
main rules and each compiling way has its funcionalities.

The first way in which you can compile MClone (and this is the default way -- if
you don't specify anything the Makefile will compile it this way) is in the
"Simulation" mode. In this mode, MClone will run its algorithm (it needs some
files -- take a look at "ConfiguringMClone.txt" -- with some ammount of
configuration so it run) without any GUI, and, then, without any of the GUI
funcionalities. The program compiled in this way is used so the user can, for
example, create a script that calls MClone several times and leave it running at
night or while doing other things.

The second way in which the user would like to compile MClone is in the "Viewer"
mode. In this mode, MClone will not be capable of simulating the algorithm
entirely (calm down... we are working on it :-)), but, once the algorithm was
runned (using the MClone Simulation mode), the user can see its result using the
Viewer mode without any problems. The Viewer mode was made using GLUT (we are
very likely to change it to GLUI or any other better library on a near future --
we'd be very glad to accept patches from other users :-)) and, then, you can
right click on the screen while using the program to know what kind of
funcionalities you have access to.

Finally, if you have some doubt about how to make the program using Eclipse
(Eclipse is the program we use to develop the program. So, we are likely to have
already passed for enough problems and are likely, then, to know some issues we
have forgot to write here), write me an e-mail (it is on the end of the text)
and I can try to help you with it.

So, now, open your Eclipse CDT[1], create a project with the folder where you've
put MClone (it can be an empty project, for example), right click on the name of
the project (on "Project Explorer", at the left of the screen), and click on
Properties. Go on C/C++ Build (at the left side of the screen) and click on
"Manage Configuration...", at the top right of the windows. Create two new
Configurations, which I'm going to call "MCloneSimulation" and "MCloneViewer"
(or, sometimes, for brevity, Simulation and Viewer, respectively).

Now, expand the submenus below the C/C++ Build and click in Settings. There is
where the magic is going to happen. You're ready to start configuring your
system to build the program using Eclipse.


Preparing the Simulation Mode to make on Eclipse
===============================================



Preparing the Viewer Mode to make on Eclipse
===========================================



Footnotes
=========

[1]: The Eclipse CDT project is a project that enables you to use the Eclipse
     IDE as a C/C++ IDE. More information in:
     http://www.eclipse.org/cdt/

Authors
=======

John Gamboa (jcbgamboa@inf.ufrgs.br)
