Introduction
============

There are some libraries which you need to have in order to get MClone builded.
Provide you with these libraries already compiled in a folder of the project
would be very weighty (just an example, ImageMagick has 12Mb of code and, after
compiled, occuppies over 110Mb of you hard disk space). So, as an alternative,
we provide you some instructions about how to have these libraries working.

If you know any way of getting them working without doing what we say here, you
can, of course, do it your way. If you think your way is better than what we say
here, please let us know your way sending an e-mail to the author of this file.

The libs needed to the program are listed here on the beggining of the file, so
you don't have to continue reading if you don't want to:

 - ImageMagick
 - Voronoi3D (which comes in the /lib/ folder of the project)
 - OpenGL, GLU, glut

For the Debian user, I've created a very simple script (I can't say it will
definitely work properly, but I think it should) so he don't need to follow all
these steps. If you don't trust in me (or in my script) you of course can
install the libraries manually. If you are a better script programmer than me
(it is not too much difficult, actually), and you think you could create a
better script, please send me and I will probably add it to the project.

ImageMagick
===========

The first library you should download to get your MClone builded is called
ImageMagick. Go to www.imagemagick.org and download the ImageMagick version to
your operating system. I can't help too much if you're on Mac or Windows, but
I describe here the steps I needed to go through to get ImageMagick running
in my computer.

The important thing is: you have to know where your ImageMagick library was
installed in your computer, so you can use this information during the building
process.

	For Linux users (but other ones can read it too):
	=================================================

	Since ImageMagick has an usual source code, after the download from the
	web site, you could just run (after changing directory to the folder
	where it was uncompressed) something like:

	./configure
	make
	make install      #(or "sudo make install", if on a Debian like distro)

	But this should not make sure you've installed ImageMagick in a regular
	place. I.e., depending of your system, ImageMagick is likely to be
	installed in some different places.

	Since we want it to be installed in "/usr/local/", we are going to pass
	it as a parameter to the configure script:

	./configure --prefix="/usr/local"
	make
	make install

	Sometimes, if even after the instalation your ImageMagick still don't
	work, try running

	ldconfig

	on your command prompt so the new libraries can be loaded.

--------------------
On a near future, I'm probably writing a how-to on Mac also here.
--------------------
This should be enough to make your ImageMagick working in your system.



Voronoi3D
=========

Voronoi3D is a library created by Michael McAllister which is capable of
computing Voronoi on some surface (and is used to on the Viewer part of MClone).
The version used in MClone (I can't say if it was maintained during the last 10
years) is released along with the project in the /libs/ folder. Since it is
compacted in a ".tar.gz" file, the Linux user should be able to easily extract
its content. Other operating system users could use programs like "WinRAR" and
7zip (these two for Windows).

After decompressing "voronoi3D.tar.gz", change directory to the folder where the
files were extracted, and issue

make

on the prompt line. Besides the ".o" files created, this will create a file
named "libvoronoi.a". This is the file you want to link to MClone. You can call

make clean

if you don't want the other .o files (they are not that useful).



OpenGL, GLU and glut
====================

I'll not cover much here, since there are tons of better tutorials on the
internet explainig how to get OpenGL, GLU and glut running on your system.

Instead, I recommend you to watch to the videos in

http://www.videotutorialsrock.com/

(which are very very very very good for beginners, in my opinion) if you really
don't know how to install the OpenGL in your computer.




Author
======

John Gamboa (jcbgamboa@inf.ufrgs.br)


